---
layout: splash
permalink: /stirling/
title: "Stirling's Approximation"
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/stirling/stirling.jpeg
excerpt: "A nice proof of Stirling's formula to approximate the factorial of a number n."
---

Our goal is to find an approximation of

$$
n! = 1 \cdot 2 \cdot 3 \cdot \ldots \cdot n
$$

that is a function $f(n)$ such that

$$
n! = f(n) + \varepsilon(n)
$$

with $\varepsilon(n) \rightarrow 0$ for $n \rightarrow \infty$. To ease the notation, we will simply write $n! = f(n)$ ignoring the error term, but we will keep in mind that our approximation will be valid for large $n$. This is known as [Striling's approximation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stirling%27s_approximation), which can be proved in several ways. What we see here is a nice proof that is relatively easy to understand.

We take $f(n) = n^n \varphi(n)$, with $\varphi$ unknown. It is easy to see that, given

$$
\begin{aligned}
(n+1)! & = (n+1)^{n+1} \varphi(n+1) \\
n! & = n^n \varphi(n),
\end{aligned}
$$

we have

$$
\frac{\varphi(n+1)}{\varphi(n)} = 
\left(
1 + \frac{1}{n}
\right)^{-n}.
$$

Since

$$
\lim_{n\rightarrow \infty} \left(
1 + \frac{1}{n}
\right)^{-n} = e^{-1},
$$

we could just take $\varphi(n) = e^{-n}$. This approximation, however, is not very good. We can do better by adding another term, that is

$$
f(n) = n^n e^{-n} \psi(n).
$$


As done before, we compute

$$
\frac{(n+1)!}{n!} = 
\frac{
(n+1)^{n+1}e^{-(n+1)}\psi(n+1)
}{
n^n e^{-n}\psi(n)
},
$$

from which we obtain

$$
\frac{\psi(n+1)}{\psi(n)} = \left(
1 + \frac{1}{n}
\right)^{-n} e^{-1},
$$

which is what we found before, but with the addition of the $e^{-1}$ term. The next step used the formula

$$
\begin{aligned}
\log \frac{1+x}{1-x} & = \log (x+1) - \log(x - 1) \\
& = 2 \left(
x + \frac{x^3}{3} + \frac{x^5}{5} + \dots
\right) \\
& > 2x,
\end{aligned}
$$

where $0 < x < 1$. If we set $x = \frac{1}{2n + 1}$, we get

$$
\log \left(1 + \frac{1}{n} \right) > \frac{1}{n +\frac{1}{2}},
$$

from which we get

$$
\left(
1 + \frac{1}{n}
\right)^{n + \frac{1}{2}} > e.
$$

Therefore,

$$
\frac{\psi(n+1)}{\psi(n)} < \left( 1 + \frac{1}{n} \right)^{\frac{1}{2}} = \frac{\sqrt{n+1}}{\sqrt{n}},
$$

that is,

$$
\frac{\psi(n+1)}{\sqrt{n+1}} < \frac{\psi(n)}{\sqrt{n}}.
$$

The function $\chi(n)$ is (slowly) decreasig and greater than zero; it has therefore a limit, which we will call $\chi(\infty)$,

$$
\lim_{n\rightarrow \infty} \chi(n) = \chi(\infty).
$$

Putting all the pieces together, we have found

$$
n! \approx n^n e^{-n} \sqrt{n} \, \chi(\infty),
$$

an expression that was found by [De Moivre](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_de_Moivre). Stirling found the value of $\chi(\infty)$, which we will now calculate.

The starting point is [Wallis product](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wallis_product),

$$
\frac{\pi}{2} = \lim_{n\rightarrow \infty}
\frac{
2 \cdot 2 \cdot 4 \cdot 4 \cdot \ldots \cdot 2n \cdot 2n
}{
1 \cdot 3 \cdot 3 \cdot 5 \cdot 5 \cdot \ldots \cdot (2n -1) (2n + 1)
}.
$$

The numerator can be written as

$$
2^{2n} (n!)^2.
$$

If we multiply both terms of the fraction by this number, the denominator becomes the square of $(2n)!$ times $2n + 1$, and therefore

$$
\frac{\pi}{2} = \lim_{n\rightarrow \infty}
\frac{
    2^{4n} (n!)^4
}{
    (2n)! (2n!) (2n + 1)
}.
$$

Plugging in our approximation $n! \approx n^n e^{-n} \sqrt{n} \, \chi(\infty)$, we obtain

$$
\begin{aligned}
\frac{\pi}{2} & = \lim_{n\rightarrow \infty}
\frac{
  2^{4n} n^{4n} e^{-4n} \left(\sqrt{n}\right)^4 \chi(n)^4
}{
  \left[
    (2n)^{2n} e^{-2n} \sqrt{2n} \chi{2n}
  \right]^2 (2n + 1)
} \\
& = 
\frac{
  2^{4n} n^{4n} e^{-4n} n^2 \chi(n)^4
}{
  (2n)^{4n} e^{-4n} 2n \chi(2n)^2 (2n + 1)
} \\
& = 
\frac{n}{2(2n + 1)}
\frac{\chi(\infty)^4}{\chi{\infty}^2},
\end{aligned}
$$

because $\lim_{n\rightarrow \infty} \chi(n) = \lim_{n\rightarrow \infty} \chi(2n) = \chi(\infty)$. Removing redundant terms we obtain

$$
\frac{\pi}{2} = \frac{1}{4} \chi{\infty}^2,
$$

which gives

$$
\chi(\infty) = \sqrt{2 \pi}
$$

thus completing the proof of Stirling's approximation.
